five four three two that count don't
gives me anxiety I got to stop doing the
countdown see look I spilled my fucking
alpha brain what is alpha brain it's
brain juice it's like a cognitive
enhancing supplement really yeah you
ever fuck with nootropics you know what
nootropics are no you have an extra one
can I score for sure nootropics are
essentially the building blocks for
human neurotransmitters they improve
your memory not too radically not like
your fucked with modafinil or any of
that stuff no no no modafinil is like
provigil it's they give it a fighter
pilot yeah helps keep them awake I was a
doctor so yeah you have a doctor my what
my wife is a doctor Oh your wife's a
doctor yeah oh that's perfect so she
knows about all that job yeah
but there was just an article recently
about it improving cognitive performance
you're gonna probably have to bite into
that you got it yeah
it's good to meet you man I'm gonna been
a fan forever so thank you me too
looking forward I've enjoyed your
writing for sure and did you get that
you got there I don't have to buy this
here we go
we got scissors got it Jamie's got
scissors for you if you don't want to
fuck with that I got it um so let's talk
about what we were just talking about
you were you wrote a book with a guy
about drug dealing and he was gonna come
on wearing a mask yeah he wanted to come
on wearing a Barack Obama mask actually
it's it's actually really funny the
whole story is really funny I'm writing
this book I spelled it too it's called
the business secrets of drug dealing you
can find it at business secrets of drug
dealing calm and I'm serializing it but
basically somebody I knew for ages in a
completely different capacity I sort of
came out to me last year and said um you
know I've been a high-level drug dealer
for for a long time basically my whole
life
and wanted to tell his story about you
know sort of the the whole progression
of his life what kind of drugs only
things that grow out of the ground so he
started off this is a is an
african-american guy he started off
bleed or not selling mushrooms he he
sort of grew up half in the projects and
half and in an upscale suburb and he in
the upscale suburb he sold mushrooms
which he basically got through mail
order at a time early in the sort of
history the internet when there were
some loopholes about things get spores
right yeah well actually you could get
the actual really yeah yeah Wow
so he ends up having this whole career
and he wanted to sort of explain to me
what the rules of the game were and do
sort of a book version of the ten crack
commandments and so we sat down and we
couldn't quite figure out how to do it
at first but we ended up essentially
doing a sort of fictionalized version of
of his life and the progression is
amazing because he he goes from being a
dealer and all these different parts of
the country and different social spheres
he's in college he deals to rich white
kids he deals on the street and in Tut
in you know tougher urban neighborhoods
and then ends up sort of in the legal
business in this state as a lawyer no no
no no no he legal marijuana oh yeah yeah
and so he's describing that world which
is not there are a lot of misconceptions
about it there are there are some things
about it that are not known terribly
well like you know what do you do when
you work
[Music]
you know at a farm and your crop test
dirty you know with with a contaminant
well you know not everybody just throws
it away you know a lot of that stuff
ends up shipped across country goes to
other markets and he sort of describes a
lot of this like what contaminants would
that be like fungal or yeah like a
fungus something like that you know
there are labs that basically have to
clear you know from what I understand
that have to clear each of the crops and
and there are situations where you know
there's a whole bunch of crop and you
got workers that have to be paid and
what do you do with it and the legal
market isn't big enough to accommodate
all the stuff that's grown and so
there's sort of still you know kind of a
black market that goes on and he
describes this and but even before that
it's just a fascinating book about you
know all the different things that he
learned in the course of his career
about how to get it you know do the job
and not get caught had it had a rig a
load to drive cross-country how do you
do a dummy car you know he tells the
story about how basically you want four
cars you want the guy in the front seat
to be to be to look like a drug dealer
have a terrible record drive badly
basically to attract the police and the
you know the third car is the load car
the second car is sort of watching to
see if there's there's cops in either
direction and then the fourth car is
basically driving up behind the load car
to sort of prevent anybody from seeing
the license plate and that sort of thing
and so he just talks about all this
stuff and it's it's it's fascinating and
it was a new kind of writing for me
because I've never really done anything
except straight journalism and we sort
of had to do it narrative form and so
we're putting it out serially online
right now which is really cool so you
did one of those to change the names to
protect the innocent
exactly yeah yeah or the guilty yeah
yeah
but for the most part based on facts mmm
yes yes the situations were left to say
realistic you know right yeah yeah and
and his you know the observations were
that that he describes are all you know
things that he actually learned the
situations were you know relatively
close to things that actually happened
so yeah that's interesting so that's
available now mm-hmm yep yep again it's
business secrets of drug-dealing calm
it's it's kind of a new thing I grew up
a huge fan of serialized detective
stories I was a big fan of like Dashiell
Hammett and Raymond Chandler and I loved
black mask magazine which was the big
pulp noir magazine in the 20s and 30s
and you know I grew up reading all those
stories and I always it was in the back
of my mind always that I wanted to try
this and write a book on a deadline so
I'm doing this now it's a it's basically
co-written with this anonymous character
who can't appear with me on shows like
this anywhere because he asked he's
still not captured and so are there
warrants out for this guy no he's never
been picked up been arrested never been
arrested no oh yeah like a smart dude he
is a smart dude he is a smart dude and
some of his employers would be very
surprised to know that he's got a hobby
like this it's funny you know I knew him
again I knew him for years and didn't
have the faintest clue that that this
was this was going on so you keep a job
in order to avoid suspicion so the book
is actually structured with all these
rules each chapter has has rules in it
one of his his most important rules is
always have a job and it's for a number
of reasons number one he talks about how
when he was young he worked at places
like
you know Marriott or Applebee's and he's
like you know if you can serve have the
patience to serve people at an
Applebee's and not blow up and scream at
people then you won't screw up a package
like in other words if if you can have
the self-discipline to actually get
through one of these jobs and not blow
up and be crazy then you're gonna handle
or hand it yourself well at a car stop
that's fascinating so he used it almost
like as a discipline exercise he used it
as a discipline exercise he learned and
among other things like another one of
his rules is dressed like an off-duty
Applebee's waiter like do not dress he
talks about this about how most dealers
they learn their their profession by
watching movies you know there's no
there's no book out there I mean they
it's not like this generation is growing
up reading like me the old iceberg slim
or Donald Goines novels or whatever it
is they're watching you know the wire or
blow or ozark now or whatever it is but
dealers very often dress like dealers
you can you can kind of spot them you
know and he says that's exactly the
opposite of what you have to do you know
where Sperry shoes wear boring clothes
look like you know youth you're on your
way to to you know your freshman English
class or whatever it is and you know
sound like a nerdy college kid when when
the cops pull you over and all this
stuff is sort of central to his his
whole worldview about how to avoid
getting caught Wow that would be a great
book it I mean it is it's it's it's
really fun and you know the the fact
that that the you know the co-author is
actually a person who's pulling this off
makes it makes it really interesting and
it makes it a real challenge to write it
too because you know I had to kind of
simulate his voice
and kind of communicates people what
what the situations were like and what
things look like from his point of view
and obviously I'm white and he's
african-american and that's that's tough
and but you know I think it works it's
kind of a cool story but it must have
been a juice eat like when you found the
subject like oh boy we got something
here oh yeah super juicy ya know it's
it's it's so much fun I haven't had this
much fun like fun fun writing anything
for a long time because you know most
most criminal memoirs and again I grew
up a junkie in terms of reading this
stuff I love I love books that are
written after the fact by people who
were in crime you know like Papillon was
one of my favorite books growing up I
mean it's it's an amazing story about
not not just crime but about prison and
what's that like
but they're always written by people
after they got caught right and so
there's never that book by the person
who's still out there and and talking
about what outlaw life is like
successfully still on the other side of
the law and that that part of it is
fascinating it's just uh it's a
completely new thing and and he has all
these insights that I that I would never
have thought about like he talks about
how there's the thing he calls the hood
price like if you when you're dealing
selling to in black neighborhoods even
he charges a higher price because
there's more there are more problems
that you inevitably run into when you're
dealing in those neighborhoods because
there's more cops which means more
lawyers which means more security which
means more attention to detail when you
deal to rich white kids there's nobody's
paying attention so you just there's
less overhead you know in the business
which is which is fascinating it's it's
and you know he talks all about this and
and he has he spent a lifetime kind of
just keeping all this stuff in his head
always wanting to put it down and he
just got to be too much and he just sort
of tapped me on the shoulder one day and
said can we have lunches when I talk to
you about something I would say three
years was four years yeah yes that's
very easy yeah we had to trust you well
I'm glad we decided to not have him on
because he would get busted yeah exactly
yeah yeah like you can't like if you
were on something and you had a mask on
people go that's Matt Taibbi somebody
listening to him he that maybe he
doesn't understand that there's millions
of people listening I totally agree
hundreds of those people would go that's
whatever right it's Mike that's John
whatever his name is they would get it
even the even the Unabomber got caught
and he only talked to like two people
especially today with this Jeff Sessions
motherfucker and oh my god please he's
scary you just see the shit that he was
saying now that they're going to
actively separate parents from their
children if they catch illegals coming
over with their families I mean that's
just vindictive and he's fucking evil ya
know and it's funny I covered Trump
obviously one on the campaign trail and
I watched sort of the progression of his
thought or non thought as it is on
things like immigration and it seemed to
me that he he concluded very quickly
that people just want to be mean to in
work immigrants yeah he just it's not so
much about the policy right he was very
nonspecific about that whenever he could
be he just wanted to say things that
that that feel vindictive and cruel and
nasty and so good doing something to
children it's just it's just monstrous
you know but sessions is a real creep
oh he's horrible he's a scary guy yeah
like one of the things that he said is
good people don't smoke marijuana like
just saying that alone
do you know how many grandmas out there
with cancer smoking marijuana of course
you know fuck you right lazy asshole the
fact that someone could be in such a
position of influence and say something
like that right like this isn't just
your dad saying that good people don't
smoke marijuana he goes out in the yard
and fucking smokes a cigarette this is
this is generally yeah exactly fine yeah
and and you know when you take ignorant
sand then the full weight of the
executive branch you know especially the
anti-drug apparatus yeah you know that's
that's a terrible terrible combination
which it's too bad because I think I
think even the law enforcement community
was kind of coming around on this yes
you know they they don't want to be
picking up people for dealing weed I
mean I talked to for my last book
talking about the Eric garner case I
talked to lots of cops and they they
just hate having to do that you know
those those busts are not fun for them
well they Eric Gardner cases the guy got
choked in New York yeah exactly
cigarettes which is even even more even
dumber yeah yeah and that's and you know
cops having to do that that's not even a
misdemeanor in New York and you know if
you gotta if you got to drag somebody in
for selling a 50 cent cigarette like you
know that's not exactly Serpico you know
what anything like cops don't you know
join the force dreaming of doing that so
but yeah I mean the sessions thing is
terrible yeah having that guy in in that
kind of a position and saying things
like good people don't smoke marijuana
or you know when families come across
the border illegally we're gonna
separate the parents from the children
like the fuck is wrong with you and then
you throw in a good dose of the Jesus
right him yeah exactly
scary fucking time at least Trump has
said that he's gonna he's not going to
support sessions on going after
marijuana in states where it's legal
he's gonna leave the states to take care
of it themselves that's encouraging the
the the problem with Donald Trump and
and this is something that I didn't clue
into until I'd spent a lot of time
watching the guy and following him
around is that he can sound like you
believe something very deeply and you
can be absolutely convinced that he even
logically thinks it thinks a thing but
he'll have a meeting with somebody and
five minutes later he'll have a
completely the opposite opinion so I
have no confidence that Donald Trump
will anything that he says that he'll
did it will stay his opinion on anything
yeah he can be convinced to go to a
complete 180 on basically any issue
which is scary isn't he in some ways the
perfect representative of America
because of that absolutely he has no
attention span and and and I talked
about this when I was covering him
because people said Oh what is this
billionaire in New York or have in
common with with ordinary Americans he
has a lot in common with him he has
exactly the same media habits that they
have he reads the same dumb shit on the
internet he has the same total inability
to separate fact and fiction
he's completely credulous when he reads
a news item about something that he
personally agrees with and he'll he'll
tweet it out five seconds later before
he checks it out which is like what
every other American does you know they
get something on Facebook and they
immediately share it with you know all
their friends and this is this is an
American thing now just the total
inability to to logically look at things
yeah and the short attention span to a
short attention span drifting in and out
of conversations not being able to pay
attention to memos unless his name is in
there people I know it sounds like
American right right and and you know
it's it's funny because if you if you
watch Trump's speeches are actually
better or better yet if you read Trump
speeches it's they would pass out the
text of what Trump was supposed to say
before his events and so I'd be sitting
there I'd be looking at the the remarks
and they would be cogent from one end to
the other then he would get up there and
the first line would be like oh it's so
great to be back in Manchester New
Hampshire I always loved you know being
here and that would be right and then he
would veer off and he would he would
start saying one thing and then the
other thing
and his thoughts would drift in all
these different directions and then when
you looked at the actual transcript of
what Donald Trump had said he not only
wasn't completing thoughts he wasn't
completing sentences he talks in these
sort of strange fragments and he'll
he'll drift from one idea to another and
they won't have any logical connection
to each other and people still responded
to it which tells you something both
about him and about his audience right
because they're on the same weird mental
wavelength where we're just sort of
disconnected bits of of emotion and
thought is enough yeah right isn't that
weird I mean that is weird it's really
strange well people don't know that
someone's not smart if they're dumber
than the person right right yeah I think
what it's revealing is what a small
amount of time most people spend
actually thinking thinking about ideas
thinking about themselves thinking about
behavior thinking about the impact that
someone who's in the position of
president can have very few people are
out there actually thinking yeah not I
mean relative pretty large number
overall but very few in terms of
percentages in terms of the people you
can reach and the people that'll show up
at his press rallies that's a big thing
too right mm-hmm
who the fuck is gonna go to a campaign
speech for anybody unless you're a
journalist well that's that's
interesting because I've I've been to a
million campaign rallies right and and
my opinion on them is you know I would
rather basically stick a railroad spike
in my ear than then voluntarily go to
one of these things right and not you
know not be paid to do it because
normally a campaign speech is like the
supernaturally boring experience where a
guy or you know a woman stands up there
and reads out a pre-selected a
market-tested list of political cliches
that have no meaning whatsoever and that
you know don't represent what they're
actually going to do and when there are
in office anyway so and if you have to
listen to that 40 or 50 times in a row
which is what happens when you're
covering campaigns like you want to kill
yourself so why anyone would go
voluntarily to see that as entertainment
is sort of beyond me but that happened
in in 2015 and 2016 Trump's events were
a little different they were they were a
little bit and I think he got a little
bit of this from his WWE experience like
he turned them into these kind of
menacing weird audience-participation
things where he would have the audience
turn on the press and shout at us and
throw things and you know we because
we're always standing up on those risers
and we have ropes around us we look like
you know zoo animals or something and
and we were the representatives they
hated elite you know and and hilarious
and he turned it into this sort of like
physical menacing intimate thing and
people would come from all over they'd
come from down in the hills you know and
drive 50 miles to see the spectacle it
was cut it was fascinating to watch but
kind of terrifying - well the peope yeah
the people that are going to those
things like boy that is an odd group of
humans that have decided this is how
you're gonna spend your day you're gonna
go and watch this guy rabble about fake
news right he's gonna ramble about this
your fake news and point the CNN guy
your fake news oh yeah
yeah fake News CNN terrible terrible
ratings keep going say things and make
you feel good say things that excite me
absolutely absolutely and yeah look look
at these bloodsuckers that was a line
that he that he used to pull out a lot
look at these bloodsuckers these people
reporting information yeah we again we'd
be sitting there and a whole bunch of
reporters and we're a bunch of geeks and
arrow shirts you know and we got we got
pads and we're kind of looking we're
surrounded by you know in some cases
15,000 people who you know are kind of
turning in our direction and
you know in a couple of cases it it you
know there were it was definitely up in
the air whether this was gonna turn ugly
or and in a few places it did turn ugly
and and but he was very clued in the one
thing I will say about Trump is that he
has a keen instinct for audience he
knows where they are
he knows what their mood is he knows
what he has to do to get them you know
to wake them up to stir them up he can
tell when he's losing them I mean that
that is that is one talent that he does
have but it's it's a negative talent for
sure well he uses it certainly in a
negative way yeah absolutely
how much attention have you paid it all
to his use of diet pills they've been
following that at all no that's
fascinating what is he using a lot of
diet pills the reporter was at
Washington Post that first talked about
it they found the Duane Reade pharmacy
where he was first prescribed diet pills
by this doctor who described it for a
non-existent condition like a metabolic
deficiency or some shit like a metabolic
disorder I think he called it and it
allowed him to prescribe and this guy
was like a known prescriber of these
things uh-huh I don't like a dr.
feelgood type epi all day and he's
supposed to be on these for a very short
amount of time he's on them for a long
period of time and this guy this
reporter to print it out tweeted out the
actual Duane Reade pharmacy where Trump
was filling this prescription and then
now they they're saying that he's on
some other diet pill which is one of the
ingredients that was in phen-fen do you
remember fen phen yeah absolutely
unfortunately I know yeah yeah phen-fen
was something for people don't know that
the young folks out there there was a
pill that people were taking in the
1990s and I knew a gal who was a very
pretty girl
she was large and she got on the
fen-phen and I hadn't seen her and like
I don't know like six months or
something and I saw her and all sudden
she was like a hundred and twenty pounds
so it's like what you look amazing like
what are you doing like you exercising
or something did you go crazy and join a
gym and it's like no I started taking
this stuff called fen-phen and she was
like run along
I couldn't stop talking and grinding his
teeth a little bit non speed and she
started having weird feelings with her
heart so she stopped it it turns out
people were just dropping dead left and
right off of this stuff you fucking
heart attacks and all kinds of shit
because hardcore stuff but they
recognize that the combination of these
two things was the issue but one of
these things by themselves is okay so
there's one thing by itself is what they
think he's on now which makes sense that
a guy who's in his 70s has so much
energy
right I mean they say he's up at five
o'clock in the morning watching Fox News
and then he starts tweeting like a 5:30
in the morning he's tweeting right gets
very little sleep he drinks like 12 diet
cokes a day I mean the guy's just he's
got boundless energy like when he was
campaigning that was the thing that was
so stunning to me I was like I know what
it's like to go on the road and just do
stand-up just do stand-up well you have
your act you fuck around it's fun you
have a good time
it's fucking wears you out after a
couple days oh yeah one town to the next
town by the time the third day rolls
around you're fucking beat down this guy
was doing day after day and day after
day like it's all great to see all you
wonderful people we're gonna make
America great again the wall got 10 feet
higher and everything is with energy
yeah and and this is the speculation the
speculation is he like I mean I'm sure
you're aware many many journalists are
on adderall right he's on something sure
yeah no of course this is in my like the
way I look at it it's like this is
indicative of where America stands today
it's not just that he's a good
representative of mayor because he has
the same meaty consumption habits and
the same inability to read books and all
these different variables but also
because he's peeled up right which is
everybody in America everybody in
America right yeah I mean that's like
there's a little bit of a precedent
there because
you know Kennedy had so many physical
problems that I not sure if you remember
there was a book that dark sat a Camelot
that Ken came out by sy Hersh where it
talked about how Kennedy in the morning
used to have an as a Secret Service
agent give him a shot of basically I'm
feta means every every morning and he
would sort of pace around the Oval
Office talking about who he wanted to
whack today you know and that this this
was like the background for Bay of Pigs
and you know all these other things so
it's very dangerous when a president is
is you know pharmaceutically altered
yeah when a person who is you know if
he's if he's on speed and he's tweeting
threats to a nuclear power or like I
mean that would be a very ironic and but
terrible way for all of that all of us
to end did you find the tweet I've been
looking for it was hard to find the
first time I know who wrote it but you
know you gotta you gotta save that and
put in your favorites cuz we talked
about it so many times you gotta figure
out a way to save that and put it in a
bookmark because it was a in like he had
the Duane Reade pharmacy and then
there's a speculation about what the
most recent stuff is that he's on which
is again one ingredient in phen-fen but
one of the things that they were saying
is that when you look at the side
effects of this stuff one of the side
effects is delusional perception of
reality delusions of grandeur of course
aggression impulsiveness like all these
things that we associate with Donald
Trump
mm-hm like we we don't even know who he
is we know we know who he is pilled up
if this guy's right right which is
fucking fascinating right they might be
dealing with essentially a
pharmaceutical intervention into not
just American lives in terms of
individuals but in terms of the way
policy is driven right and the way the
country moves forth it might literally
be pharmaceutically enhanced that's very
philip k dick but it could easily be
true right it easily be true it all
seems true right it seems like like I'm
not saying anything that's Outland its
first of all not we're talk
about something that's real pills are
these pills are real we're talking about
sometimes widely consumed everybody
knows this and we're talking about a guy
who is an extraordinary extraordinary
amount of energy for someone who doesn't
work right dirt work out rather doesn't
eat healthy right and like what where's
he getting all this energy yeah no I
mean I remember talking about this with
some of the other reporters because as
you say the campaign trail is incredibly
grueling there's a reason why some
candidates can't do it or they opt to do
lots of legacy media appearances or ad
buys they travel less and appear more
the people who tend to succeed are the
ones who can do three or four
appearances a day fly to three different
cities a day and they most of those
people are either health freaks people
who are you know in good physical
condition Obama was was definitely one
of those people who you know had to have
a run at some point or else he couldn't
do that schedule but Donald Trump you
know you look at him and it's kind of a
mystery there it is there it is fun fact
in 1982 Trump started taking amphetamine
derivatives abused them only supposed to
take two for 25 days stayed on for eight
years
really and this is Kurt Ike Wald right
white house submit admitted it to me
said only a short time for diet in
quotes when he was not overweight I
countered with medical records they cut
me off people miss reading drug was
diethyl propane 75 milligrams a day
prescription filled that duane reade on
57th Street in Manhattan oh I don't know
I know things yeah doctor who wrote
prescription dr. Joseph greenberg
diagnosed him with metabolic imbalance
which we have never heard about again
Greenberg was later publicly slammed as
someone who provided upper history rich
people in Manhattan a metabolic
imbalance in quotes if true could be
electrolyte insufficiencies anaerobic
imbalances acid imbalances and an
assortment of related disorders that can
have serious health consequences yet his
other doctor dr. Harold Bornstein said
he had been Trump's doctor since 1980
and had never mentioned the met
Balch and balance found by Greenberg
yeah right right so save that save that
in book market now find out what the the
other stuff cuz he was in just just
Google Trump is on one of the
ingredients in fen phen so I googled
that that came up and like a Gawker
article excuse me got Gawker from 2016
that said he was on Fincher without the
actual name of him yeah
Fincher Manor yeah um so this is what
they think he's on now venture mean yes
which is also a stimulant but just make
sense if that guy is telling the truth
at Kurt Michel mall is telling the truth
that means that he was on pills
amphetamines for eight years which means
he was having good results so if he was
a rumor a doctor prescribes Donald Trump
cheap speed and this is Ashley what is
her name
Ashley Feinberg Ashley Feinberg who is a
really good reporter well I'm sure she's
right yeah it makes like fuckin makes
and absolutely it makes sense absolutely
I mean everybody buildup and you know I
I don't know how a person whose diet is
cheeseburgers and that coke could run
for president without stress right
chicken with a fork and knife on the
Trump jet eaten fried chicken with a
fork and knife who are you Trump suit so
I wouldn't know that because they keep
the press in a separate plane oh yeah
there you go
that is oh my god look at the bucket
yeah eaten fried chicken with a fork and
knife see that's bad I mean I think I
would think ordinary America would would
ding him for that because let's use your
fingers use your fingers just put your
face in it if you have to yeah you doing
man yeah fork and knife amazing fen-phen
was actually the was the name of the
very cheap speed that used to be
imported when I lived in Russia there
was there was a type of speed that used
to come from the Baltics that allegedly
you know the the urban legend was was
that the Nazis had all their soldiers on
a cheap speed for the long marches going
into into Russia and they set up these
these pharmaceutical plants and theory
and again the street legend was that
that was what this drug was but they
called it Fenn so wasn't that the origin
the origins of methamphetamines wasn't
methamphetamines created by the Nazis I
believe it was and I think this is one
of the speculations as to why they could
get suicide bombers the kamikazes to
slam their jets into aircraft carriers
left up right well we have those go
pills right that's what they're called
well that's also yeah there's definitely
some speed that gets prescribed and
steroids or also to soldiers I mean we
talk to people that have been in you
know they'll tell you about what
different things that they allowed them
to take and gave them to take em but
that modafinil stuff is that's really
common mm-hmm and then I know I know a
lot of fighter pilots will take that
keeps you from getting sleepy hmm keeps
you alert and awake and that was also
something Hillary Clinton was supposed
to be on really yeah she was supposed to
be on modafinil that was one of the
things that she admitted to and it's
legal it's it's a weird if you've tried
that now it's a weird one it doesn't
speed you up in terms of like heart rate
it's not like like drinking five cups of
coffee all right it does give you this
weird sense of alertness huh really
awake that sounds kind of good it's kind
of good yeah I have a buddy of mine
who's a writer who he's got some health
issues and he's on it all the time and
he said if I don't take it I'm a mess
really
yeah well slim it sounds sounds perfect
for writers so um look at that fuckin ad
and slim by by taking now they should
have the next day picture oh she's dead
she's been dead for decades she died a
day after they took that picture
with this one tons of them more Dean she
can now she can cook breakfast again
when you prescribe new morn Dean morn
morning Dean war Nadine what is morn a
date it's a you take it in the morning
he wakes you up well she can make
breakfast again thanks honey bouncing
off the world yeah she's gonna put a
line on that on that spatula after uh
after she's done and just yeah that's
great yeah there was I think there was a
time where people didn't understand how
bad that stuff was for you and this is
probably a lot of people on it right
well we're probably going through a
similar period now where all kinds of
stuff is being prescribed that we're
gonna find out fifty years from now like
oh really like we've prescribed adderall
to fifty million children or whatever it
was so sure like it's gonna see monsters
I think sure some some day prozac
adderall yeah and then the numbers of
SSRIs that are prescribed Nero like who
knows how many people actually need
those things versus how many people are
just having a bad day and went to the
doctor and they give you something numbs
you up right right and how many how many
schools are are mandated to you know to
put you know a bunch of kids on these
drugs I think probably in hindsight some
of that it's gonna look really bad oh
for sure means we're experimenting
experimenting on people's brains and
absolutely these pharmaceutical
companies have billions of dollars in
massive influence and they're making it
so this stuff is okay mm-hmm maybe just
had a look at the number of people that
are dying just dying from opiate pills
well if those were illegal drugs we'd be
saying there's a there's a goddamn
epidemic absolutely yeah
yeah but they there's no question that
it's a conscious strategy to get people
hooked and and get them taking those
pills for in every conceivable scenario
so that they will seek them out in other
areas you know and not legally you know
I think but some some prosecutor is
gonna have to figure out some way to get
to hold some of those companies
accountable because they're definitely
doing that on purpose but even if they
do it seems like they just it's like the
tobacco thing they get paid
right you know they pay off a few
billion dollars it's barely scratches a
dent in them they write it all off jack
up the price of everything a little bit
over the course of ten years it balances
itself out to zero right right right
a couple of movies will be made but the
same thing will happen yeah exactly like
that Russell Crowe movie The Insider
yeah that was great yeah it was a good
movie it was a good movie it was
actually kind of more movie about about
the death of the press as it turned out
than it was a movie about the death of
the tobacco industry but yeah it was it
was really interesting what is it like
being a reporter and being a journalist
rather today with all this fake news
talk like this this is a new thing this
whole calling something fake news
writers there certainly is manufactured
stories and things that just aren't true
websites that are just designed to get
people to click on them and they have
crazy stories didn't really happen right
but they're pretty obvious right yeah
and I think a lot of what people call
fake news is just news that is very
heavily slanted in one direction yeah
and you know people people talk a lot
about how Fox is fakes fake news well
most of the time when you want watch Fox
what they're just doing is they're
selectively picking out stories that
they know are gonna rile up their
elderly freaked out terrified audience
you know and so they they pick out the
four or five things that are that
actually happened around the world they
can do that without lying you know they
don't they don't have to make this stuff
up they can find the lineup of facts
that they want but you know we're
working as a journalist now is is very
very different the business is
undergoing extremely rapid change and
it's not something that we really have
reckoned with we haven't sat down and
had a discussion about where this is all
going and how we can fix it because the
business is changing in a way that is
extremely negative and no one's talking
about how to how to reverse that like
long-form investigative reporting is it
started to disappear in the 80s but it's
accelerate
to the point where there's almost none
of that now almost everybody who works
in the business is doing quick hits and
there's almost no time left to do you
know kind of real real hardcore
investigative work and we've trained our
audiences also to be unable to consume
that kind of stuff so you know we're all
we're all basically doing clickbait now
and and yeah I think it's a really big
dark time in our business well it's it's
also this weird time transitioning
between paper and digital and trying to
get people to pay for digital I mean I
subscribed to a few of them online
Washington Post New York Times where you
pay but I don't think very many people
are doing that yeah it's probably a
small amount of people that are paying
right you know I think the New York
Times gives you like 10 articles a month
or something like that for free right
and like come on man you're here
everyday right time to pay up
right you know they give you like a
little countdown then you're like ah
this is a good art all right I'm gonna
pay ya and this is this is a fascinating
sort of subplot to what happened to the
media business because a lot of that is
because of something that Google did a
long time ago they had this thing called
the first click rule which is sort of
mandated that all all news sites have at
least some free content or else the
algorithm would would push the the news
story far down on the search results
right so if you if you didn't have free
content on your site if you didn't meet
Google's first click rule when you
search for a news story you just
wouldn't find it so all of these in the
early days of sort of digital journalism
all the news companies offered their
content basically for free and that
trained audiences to not pay for
journalism basically and it's it's
pretty hard to put the genie back in the
bottle and tell everybody to go back and
and pay for everything it just doesn't
work that way so we're it we're in this
place where everybody's sort of
consuming free meat
and not only that there's this
additional problem of the you know the
internet platforms like Facebook and
Google
[Music]
pushing news that they already know
people are going to agree with to users
so there's there's there's sort of less
news that challenges people they're just
not gonna see it you know because that's
not the way the algorithms work the
algorithms are really confusing so the
algorithms like will actively pick out
things they think you'll be interested
in yeah so if you're someone who has got
a particular set of interests it it
becomes sort of an echo chamber right
your Google search becomes an echo
chamber you're gooe I have that Google
News app on my phone won't check it
every morning see what's going on but
it's all shit that I'm interested in
right right it's it's probably a little
bit worse on Facebook than it is on
Google but cuz it's Google you at least
have some some control over what you
search for right but even Google will
will prompt you with things right like
so but with with both of them yeah
they're they're accumulating lots and
lots of information about your not only
about what you read but about the things
that you buy the movies that you watch
what your predilections probably are
what your opinions your political
stances and so they pick out news
stories that they think are you know
you're likely to endorse or spend a lot
of time reading which likely means that
you're never gonna see a news story that
says you personally are responsible for
something bad right that's like thing
one you will see a lot of news stories
that say your neighbor is responsible
for something bad and that's one of the
reasons why I like device stiffness is a
conscious commercial strategy it's just
it's it's a natural result of a lot of
this a lot of these behaviors what is
the mean age of people that are watching
Fox News you're talking about the house
it's like people 68 yeah really yeah
it's it's something ridiculously old and
that's true of all the all the cable
networks they're on MSNBC
yeah even MSNBC the you know it's it's
worse with Fox and and and CNN and I
don't want to I don't want to misquote
it but I know they're all like above 65
so TV 68 you're right look at that
median age of primetime of Fox News do
we do we have MSNBC 65 the youngins CNN
60 oh they're little kids Wow
yeah and so a lot of that has to do with
the fact that young people just don't
watch television right like right Dave
they're done yeah they're done so
they're getting their news some other
way they're not getting it in YouTube
videos almost no news right right
exactly
I mean it's it's supposed to like when I
was a kid I mean would have been I
should deliver newspapers read
newspapers quite a bit did you yeah you
do the globe yeah where was your route
let's see I had one in Hingham I had one
in Norwell yeah yeah I did
mostly Newton Newton yeah yeah I did the
globe
I did the The Herald Boston Herald and I
delivered the New York Times for a while
but just so I didn't like the New York
Times was interesting because it wasn't
didn't pay as well and there were larger
routes like you had to go much further
huh
because there was very few houses that
would get the times right but you felt
like you were doing something special
the prestige yeah and they had clear
blue plastic bags oh wow I'm set a blue
bag like the Boston Globe at clear bags
yeah and deliver those in clear bags but
The Times The Herald should have been in
a brown paper bag do they deliver like
The Daily News in the post in New York
does that get delivered yeah I mean they
they must yeah they have to have
subscriptions and they and and the Times
is the Daily News definitely does have
delivery for sure yeah I would think so
yeah but but that and I just spent a lot
of time writing about the
the the that model where newspapers had
this direct relationship with their
readers right like they not only owned
it the content and created the content
but they also could completely control
the distribution right they they had the
trucks they had the paper kids like us
right that was all part of what gave the
press its power is that we were we had
the unique ability to reach all these
people well you know once the internet
came along they cut that in half right
so now the distribution is all Google
and Facebook and the content is all
being made by somebody else so it's it
makes it very difficult to make money a
and then B you just don't have that that
personal relationship with the with the
the consumer anymore which is which is a
completely different sort of paradigm I
do you think there's a connection now to
ponder this myself it seems like in the
early days of the internet one a big
factor with the music industry for sure
was Napster mm-hm Napster came along and
then people got this initial taste of
getting a bunch of stuff that you
normally paid for for free mm-hm get
just get tons of it and then so the
internet sort of got associated with
being a free thing and then there was
BitTorrent and through BitTorrent you
can get films and all kinds of different
stuff you could download movies and and
people just started filling up hard
drives with this stuff they would get
off a BitTorrent and in my mind at least
it became this connection with the
internet stuffs free there's so much
stuff free like why did I pay for this
right and that's free and I've tried to
say this to friends who get involved
with podcasting who have come over from
radio like just friends that have been
fired from radio jobs like you know what
I'm just gonna start a podcast and
charge people five bucks a month but as
soon as you do that people like why the
fuck would I pay alright Adam Carolla
for free read Joey Diaz for free why
would I pay five dollars for you right
yeah absolutely know that you the
audience expectations now or that
they're gonna get free content
everything's free yeah everything's free
and
obviously that has huge consequences
because that forces people who create
the content to get the money from
somewhere else they either have to be
sponsored by an advertiser who might
have you know certain expectations but
you know it's certainly not good for
people who make content that it's like
that yeah and and it creates I think a
lot of bad habits with with with the
readers too I mean they they just you
know rather than rather than look for
the best stuff they just look for what's
available and what they can read for
free also I think it opens up the door
to all this wacky advertising we're
pop-up ads and and scroll down ads like
you try to scroll down the screen and
the ad follows with you know god it's so
annoying right it's weird yeah just it's
they're so invasive and they're
everywhere even on really good websites
like like say if you go to CNN you get
the real stories and then below you get
this stuff that looks like stories but
there's a very faint print that says
paid content right and then you look at
it like you're not gonna believe what
she looks like now can't even find out
what she looks like now cuz you got to
go through 40 other people that look
like shit now too and then finally you
get sometimes you don't even get to the
original one so you're confused like I
think it's better if they don't satisfy
you cuz then you just go back to the
rest of say well what does he look like
all these different there was like one
of those pages that you go to where
there's just dozens and dozens of
windows and boxes that you can click on
for a different individual like click
Ebates stories where you go to each one
of them and they'll take you to 40 pages
right of different people that have
gained weight or lost weight or a poor
now or right whatever it is but that's I
mean I think it's one of the things
that's really bad about that is that if
you spend enough time doing that your
brain stops being able to do other
things you know like when you're reading
books books require you to sit there and
construct in your head all the visuals
for everything that you're reading you
have to imagine
what the people look like you have to
you know do all this mental work to
construct the scene right so your brain
is actively engaged in this in this
really highly specific and creative way
right but the internet now just has it
moving from place to place clicking from
place to place go going from sensation
to sensation you don't have to ponder
anything you don't have to have an
opinion about anything you don't have to
look at both sides of anything you just
have to move from one thing to another
to the next thing which is what you're
talking about with trunk that's the way
his brain works right like and it's it's
a I think it's a bad thing you know it's
not only bad in itself but it makes it
impossible for us to do the other thing
you know which is which is more
constructive ya know it's almost like
mental range of motion like if you are
somehow another your joints were
restricted where you could only like
move a certain amount after a while you
would lose your full range of motion
absolutely it gets atrophy yeah I have a
harder time reading books now than I did
when I was you know probably 11 years
old and and that's just from and you're
a writer right I'm a writer I mean I
love it yeah you know I I still I find
that I have a harder time doing the work
you know yeah and that's difficult or
yeah like when I was when I was younger
I read more fiction which which is
harder because it requires you to do
more you know sort of mental
construction work now it's much if I'm
gonna read a book it's typically
nonfiction which is linear which is an
argument right it's it's it's it's less
it requires less work of the reader
right yeah it may be just as interesting
but it just requires less work so the
hardest thing to read is you know Anna
Karenina or something like that right
yes yeah you you have to not only think
but you have to construct but with your
if you're just reading you know the
diary of Kim Kardashian or something
like that you're just you're just kind
of listening to somebody you know going
like that so I I think it's bad I think
all this stuff is negative but I don't
know maybe I'm an old fogy about it well
I definitely think it's not the most
ideal in terms of constructing a healthy
mind
right alright but but it's what we got
yeah and it's it's weird it's a weird
time absolutely and it's and you know
there's there's lots of positive things
the positive things are like that
anybody can have a voice now and anybody
who has something interesting to say can
be instantly elevated and have a
audience overnight and that's great
right like you know the the in the old
days if you you had to penetrate this
ridiculous oligarchy of entertainment
people who really owned tightly
controlled who got access to what who
got to be you know have an audience yeah
and now you get to bypass that entirely
and sort of directly appeal to people
which is great I mean that's an amazing
thing but then you get YouTube stars
right yeah a little tape and hold the
other day you fucking asshole Jamie told
me about little today so I went down
this crazy rabbit hole then I read this
Jezebel article about another writer who
went down a little tail rabbit hall and
so I went down that rabbit hole oh my
god wait who's a little taya Whittle say
is a nine-year-old girl who is famous
now on the internet for talking shit and
showing all the money she has another
thing she buys if you don't know about
no no this is the death of society okay
little tase the death of society lil
little tag can we can we see you now yes
for sure
Oh me little toy the youngest flexor of
the flexor of the century who makes cash
me outside girl look like a scholar
she's fucking nine dude okay I have a
nine year old
all right this is crazy play it played
this video Jamie so he can understand
what little days all about
[Music]
that's her revving up her Lamborghini
she gets out
[Music]
[Applause]
Tom Jake
just throw money around lay this
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
ladies and gentlemen the next president
of the United States he's bowing in the
background I mean this is what we're
doing this makes honey boo boo it's like
Marie Curie let's get three hundred
thirty seven thousand likes
god dammit Jamie what have you done we
are here stuntin on all y'all broke ass
haters 500k in cash and this Lambo cost
more than your college tuition I'm nine
and I ain't got no license
apparently all our shits rented okay you
know I'm embarrassed to admit this but I
would watch this over reading my own
articles give up now what to do what to
do where's little Tay in 40 years that's
what I want to know where's white house
where else after Kanye's children she's
good she's gonna be next I mean that's
an interesting thought exercise though
like where do you go down from Donald
Trump I mean because the progression has
to go down right wait we all ducked it
because I remember when Bush was
president and like I was talking to
reporters Bush used to do this thing
where he would carry around a biography
of Dean a jusen for weeks and weeks and
weeks just to prove to reporters that he
could read we all used to joke with each
other like nobody-nobody stupider than
this is ever gonna be president and now
you know you look back and and bushes
you know he's like Einstein compared to
Trump
I had a joke that I did back in my
Netflix special from 2005 when when Bush
was in office where it was a bunch of
people we're trying to figure out how
dumb people are and they're like the
only way they like there's speculation
like let's get a smart guy to act on
like no no you got to get a real dumb
guy otherwise we'll never know
you gotta have a real dumb guy and then
so they get the real dumb guy and they
put up do a bunch of things you know
they they vote them in the second time
and then someone in the back of the room
goes I think we can go dumber right this
is a bit from 2005 but you know it's for
13 years later life imitates art we went
way dumber that's right
right well to allow seems super
reasonable in comparison to some of the
shit that Trump says in terms of like
Supreme Court rulings and like there was
a Supreme Court ruling that went against
Bush's way while he was in office and he
had a really reasonable response he was
like of course we're disappointed but we
have to abide by the court in their
ruling and you know I was like something
you would never hear Trump say yeah
never hear him say something like that
no absolutely I mean I look back and
Bush seems to me almost like a
Scandinavian Statesman compared she
would go to the White House to you know
a lot of people did want to go to the
White House for the inauguration uh-huh
okay we'll go she'll go I mean the White
House is good it's gonna look like the
White House and idiocracy when she's
when she's in there right I mean it's
it's it's it's gonna be terrible
but well that was a weird time to write
like during the inauguration when know
celebrities wanted to go they dig out
like really weird like real fucking on
the outskirts celebrities oh yeah and
there's the same thing with the RNC I
cover I remember I covered the RNC and
and and they had to have Scott Baio do
one of the first day speeches yeah it
was a huge supporter right but I mean I
know Scott know personally yeah it's
very nice guy I'm sure he is I'm sure it
is guy yeah yeah but that was there a
that was there a list for the Republican
National Convention and
outside of you know like Hannity's right
those type fellows right right exactly
yeah yeah it's fascinating yeah it is
it's just it's just weird it's it just
seems like everything's off like we we
we skipped dimensions we like jolted
over there's a parallel world where
things just don't seem like at least
things used to make set like you'd be
disappointed to this guy one or you'd be
disappointed that the country was doing
this or that we were invading Iraq or
whatever it was but it would kind of
seem like the world right well this is
it's kind of like what we're talking
about we were talking about before I
mean previously like the entertainment
industry politics was tightly controlled
by a small group of cigar-chomping
people who sat in the back room and in
both parties they they had a they
carefully outlined a sort of narrow
range of acceptable political opinions
and in one party you could be all the
way up to you know somebody like Ron
Paul but they tended to put somebody
like George Bush as the candidate but
you know there was no directly appealing
to the electorate and asking them who
they wanted to be the candidate I mean
Donald Trump is really the first
internet president he completely
bypassed that entire oligarchy he didn't
have to go through you know the
priesthood to get to be president which
on the one hand is evidence of a good
thing because it's actually more
democratic than the the system was
before where it was pretty much closed
to everybody except for a few people who
paid their dues through the system but
Trump directly you know just by being
famous and just by attracting media
attention he was able to bypass all the
usual tests and bypass the parties you
know decision making process and he got
to be President but he's like little pay
right I mean he just represents the
dummer side of us as opposed to the more
light inside of us so it's hard to know
what to think about it I mean I that you
when I was covering and I thought on the
one hand this is evidence that you know
the electorate is breaking away from
being told who to vote for on the other
hand the first time they take at that
freedom out for a test drive this is
what they pick I mean I don't know well
at least it throws a giant monkey wrench
into the gears right yeah absolutely it
certainly done that yeah but you know
what what the result of that will be is
yet to be determined yet to be
determined yeah I mean it could be the
end of this before that you know when I
was covering the the Trump run part of
me wanted to write it as a comedy like
all the early stories were like highly
comic I was trying to write about the
funny aspect of it and then after he
became president it's like well this is
either the funniest thing that's ever
happened in America or it's the end of
civilization right does that make it
funnier that it's the end of
civilization I don't know I mean you're
the ear a comic so I should I should ask
you I don't know either it's well it's
it's all depending upon how it plays out
right I mean civilizations have
absolutely fallen in the price we this
idea that civilization won't fall in my
opinion is akin to the people that live
on the Big Island thinking that the
volcano won't erupt again right right
yeah exactly yeah and it's going to
happen again yeah like so our ideas
about maintaining civilization are an
attempt to prolong this state or
mitigate any possible disastrous effects
of collapse right but it's going to fall
apart
of course yeah it's an old system that
was constructed on Scrolls by people
writing with feathers really had no idea
what the future had install right just
we didn't they didn't know what the
future had in store they had no idea
they would have been terrified by a
toothbrush yes right yeah well certainly
by a fucking airplane and cellular
communication and in this we live in a
world that requires a completely new set
of rules and guidelines and you know
this has always been the article against
the Second Amendment like okay they had
muskets when they wrote
they didn't have ar-15 thing right they
didn't have 50 caliber guns that can
kill things one they missed them right
playing a video yesterday of a guy
shooting a deer and with a 50 caliber
rifle and he misses the deer and it
still kills the deer
the bullet going past the deer's head
just the sheer force of it blows the
deers brains out and does that actually
happen oh yeah yeah I want to watch it
yeah absolutely pull it up that one on
favorites to make a folder for shit we
repetitively talked about I when I was
embedded in Iraq they they took me out
and the guys apparently for recreation
they cut cars in half with 50 Cal
calibers
yeah here's that here's the gun now
watch this he misses boom and watch it
just falls down dead from the bullet
passing it this is like Jesus it just
whizzed by it and the force of the
bullet passing by he's psyched right
yeah oh yeah but watch this slow-mo
it just falls down he's like thank god
this guy's got camo on literally sitting
on a bench
he's on a bench shooting something in
the distance it picks this deer up and
the deers brains are just completely
scrambled no no bullet wound at all
nothing no hole dead that's a horror
movie waiting to happen that deers gonna
wake up in the middle of the night and
and reanimate and Oh what happened the
brains coming out of the ears coming out
of the ears yeah just from the sheer
force of the bullet passing it Jesus
this is not all I'm saying is it would
be a good time to reconsider how we run
things right and I think one of the good
things about having a guy like Trump in
office is maybe we should sit down and
say hey we probably shouldn't have a
popularity contest see who controls the
nukes right yeah see who's the
commander-in-chief of the greatest army
the the planet has ever known right far
the most destructive force the planet
has ever known shouldn't we at least
find out if he's on diet pills rushing
me at least shouldn't be saved mr.
president we'd like a urine sample from
you exactly they test your pee if you
work at ups right you know right Yeah
right yeah yeah no I think there should
be more than a pee test for launching a
nuclear strike definitely should be a
lot a lot of changes yeah and one thing
I'm hoping is that this this presidency
and this the whole idea of like having a
popularity contest mm-hmm will allow
people to realize like first of all we
shouldn't have one alpha champ running
things mm-hm that's that's an antiquated
idea that was really great a tribe of
fifty nomads right get them together and
you have the wisest strongest one with
the most battle experience that guy
should be running things he knows more
than I do right get it let's vote for
orc orc orc is worse the guy with the
knowledge you know it makes sense but
when there's 350 million people and you
have the ability to manipulate things
and you have tweets and Facebook posts
and write and make wacky little toy
videos we're not designed for this
now and we have some structures that
rely on the popularity contest and some
that have the public has no control over
whatsoever like my Federal Reserve like
it doesn't a lot of it makes no sense at
all and or how net neutrality got passed
with five different people or how it got
rescinded right right yeah exactly yeah
yeah no I mean it's the the system
doesn't really make a whole lot of sense
the the the Congress you know I'm
covering congressional races now on the
run-up to to 2018 and you know the
process is almost 100% about money it's
just like you know I talked to a guy who
was who jumped in the ring to run for a
seat in the in the 19th district and he
told me he calls up the National Party
and they rip they basically had to two
questions for him like can you raise
$300,000 within the next three months
and can you raise a million dollars by
Election Day and you know that was the
whole of the conversation and and it has
to be based on more than something more
than how much money can you raise we
have to do that there has to be another
variable for picking leaders beyond you
know how much cash can you get your
hands on the next three months do you
see that Rosie O'Donnell got in trouble
for raising money under various names
and and donating too much money
it's like Roy Roy Moore's opponents and
Wow yeah what exactly happened I read
that she had used a website that she
thought should have like stopped her
from donating the extra amount because
it was being divvied amongst many people
and that it should have been returned to
her mm-hmm which I don't know enough
about it that candidates are supposed to
return extra funds once they've crossed
over at the amount that individual is
supposed to give these cases oh and it
should have happened and I don't know
doesn't she know how much you're
supposed to donate isn't there's free
that's what she was saying she's $2,700
right she used a website and she just
gave him mother shitload of money I
think oh I see but I thought she used
different names I don't know about that
part in here about that
mmm we should probably look that up yeah
they were that was one of the sort of
stories that wasn't followed up after
2016 but it was who is one of the things
that came out in the in those hacked DNC
things was that there was a little bit
of a scam going on in terms of you know
that as you see the individual donation
limit is pretty small it's like $2,700
for an individual so a couple it's fifty
four hundred dollars so what they would
do is they would host these these
dinners with celebrities like you know
George Clooney and a bunch of his
friends and they would raise all this
money and theoretically the money was
supposed to go only a tiny portion of it
to the presidential campaign the rest of
its supposed to go to the original
parties but what was actually happening
according to Politico anyway was that
the money was basically going to the
parties and then going immediately back
to the presidential campaign and and
they a lot of the people who gave the
money didn't even know that that was
happening and and they were upset about
it and but that was a story that wasn't
followed up after after 2016 yeah
there's just entirely too much money
yeah totally too much money in politics
but how would you ever do it without the
money now once the money's in how do you
pull it out how do you say no no no more
influence no more special interest
groups lobbyists are illegal yeah I mean
I I think they should they should
probably have very brief publicly funded
elections where there's no in you know
the the course of time is maybe five
weeks and whoa is this is this the
O'Donnell thing yeah says O'Donnell
donated 47 hundred dollars to a bomb
Alabama senator Doug Jones and his
special election against Roy Moore
thirty-six hundred dollars to
Pennsylvania Rep Connard Lam for the
special general election he won in March
two thousand nine hundred and fifty two
California Rep Adam Schiff for his
primary forty two hundred dollars to
Illinois congressional candidate Lauren
Underwood for her primary run and thirty
four hundred four fifty two all more
evade a congressional candidate in
Staten Island in Brooklyn nothing
nefarious
she's Rosie O'Donnell says I was
choosing to over donate the $2,700 cut
off candidates should prefer to fund the
money she wrote I don't look to see who
I can donate most to I just donate
assuming they do not accept what is over
the limit hmm
right yeah I don't know how convinced I
am by that explanation but it doesn't
really matter because the reality is
there are million ways that you can
legally give money to campaigns now that
don't involve just the individual
donation like you can you know you can
give money to a foundation or you know a
501c3 or whatever it is that buys an ad
that will help the candidate just as
much as the you know as it would if you
don't donate it directly so you know in
the post citizens united universe this
is this this is a it's a story but you
know the bigger story is that you can
basically very rich people and companies
can basically spend unlimited amounts of
money on on campaigns yeah this is this
whole story's over like what was that
all told four or five thousand dollars
most yeah not a lot no I don't that
doesn't I mean you know I don't have
feelings one way or another about Rosie
O'Donnell but not that doesn't make me
outraged terribly well Trump hates her
right what's fascinating about at all
yeah well he he got a big bump from
talking about her in the debate and you
know he that was another thing that he
did very early on is he he clued in to
the fact that people hate people hate
journalists and they Hollywood actors
and so he made he made sure as much as
possible to talk about all the all the
groups the major food groups of hate in
America right like immigrants Hillary
Clinton Hollywood actors and reporters
and those were the staples of his
routine and it worked I mean it was it
was smart on his part you know I think
particularly the targeting of
journalists was brilliant because he was
able to portray us as the wealthy elite
and you know he's the billionaire but
he's pointing the finger at us as I
looked at
you know they're the guardians of rich
America which which worked and what was
a brilliant thing it's just uh it's
unprecedented
yeah what was last time any presidential
maybe Nixon complained about them at the
time but I believe it was privately yeah
well he he hated the press pretty openly
I mean he had the 1962 press conference
where he's like you won't have Nixon to
kick around anymore
and he from all accounts he was an
incredibly profane nasty person in
private and he only talked to a few
reporters I mean I think all politicians
hate reporters if they if they don't
there's probably something wrong with
them because you know the press corps in
most cases is really is out to get them
or at least is is dangerous you know but
with Trump and Nixon it was it went to a
whole new level and went to a paranoid
place and you know but on the other hand
and I'm gonna bore you with this but but
the the whining about being kicked out
of the White House and not being able to
fly with with Trump and and the sort of
separation between the president and the
press corps and the fact he doesn't show
up at the White House Correspondents
Dinner or like as a reporter my response
to that is so what we should be on the
outside you know like I don't shed a
tear about that I think it's very
strange the response in our business
that oh you know we're not we don't get
to be hanging around with the president
and and you know pal around behind the
rope line with them anymore like we
should be adversarial I think yeah well
if long as you are honest and accurate
yeah yeah I mean I mean not even
adversarial but not connected right
right yeah it's it's it's a kind of a
separation of church and state thing for
me like I had an experience when I when
I covered the Obama campaign and I liked
Barack Obama as a candidate in 2008 I
was really impressed by him but I
remember going into the plane the first
time going back into the press section
and I see that there's photos all over
the walls above the campaign plane and
apparently there's a tradition
where each of the reporters had like a
little sort of high school yearbook
photo taken with the candidate where you
know they got their arm around Obama and
they're posing and it was a tradition to
kind of put the the photo up on the wall
and I'm like you know this is not a good
look for for the press corps even if you
like the guy you got a you know at least
pretend to have a little bit of that the
mode is supposed to be there you know
what I mean what's the scent is
certainly influential yes certainly
gonna have some sort of an influence on
you yeah yeah it's just a bad look like
what happens if you do a story about the
guy that's complementary and it comes
out that you know you're you're you've
put a picture of yourself with your arm
around the guy you know what I mean you
know that it's just that reporters are
kind of supposed to be these unpleasant
you know kind of grumpy people who
instantly deface the posters of you know
powerful people you know whenever they
get a chance and throw darts at pictures
of them and stuff like that like that
that's who they kind of used to be and
you see there's people that are jockey
in a position to potentially run in you
know the next election obviously the
2018 elections but in 2020 for president
you seen people that are moving into
position you see these congressional
candidates that are showing promise like
what what is that when you're covering
this like what's that what's the feeling
of like the future from these races so
like what is it from the standpoint of
reporters like went but yeah well first
first of all like the the holy grail of
reporting is to latch on to a politician
before they become famous and before
they become president and follow them
all the way and that way you get to be
the insider who gets invited into the
Oval Office so it's it's like a it's a
big thing that a lot of reporters kind
of dream of is to is to latch on early
to somebody like Bill Clinton and become
the the sort of favorite reporter on
that beat that's why it at the outset of
presidential elections you'll often see
a lot of jockeying within
newsroom's to see who gets to cover
which campaign because people always
want to pick the winner because they
think they're gonna write get a book
deal out of it at the end and you're
gonna end up having their own show on
MSNBC or whatever but the but yeah I
mean the what's the feeling right now
like who are people coalescing around is
that what you're asking that - yeah well
I think there's the expectation is that
some of the same people are gonna be
involved as individual there's a lot of
belief that Bernie's gonna run again but
then there's also Kamala Harris there's
Cory Booker you know people believe that
those folks are going to run but oddly
enough the the press corps is less
focused on that than they would be
normally I think they're they're the
only story that matters to political
reporters right now is the Russia gate
Trump thing and they're following that
and kind of hoping that will be
something that happens instead of the
2020 election you know that they're
they're the big the big sort of trial of
Donald Trump is what everybody's kind of
waiting for well the recent take on that
is that there is some sort of a
connection between Russian oligarchs and
Michael Cohen right there's right that's
move the vector Vekselberg payment I
just heard about that this morning so I
can't say that I know a whole lot about
that what would that payment before when
was it you know it was allegedly after
the election so that would be a story I
mean I I've gotten a lot of criticism
because I've been a little bit of a
skeptic on the Russia gate front not so
much that I don't believe it but I just
kind of think the press should be a
little careful about it
but if that's true yes that's a big
story if if Cohen really was in Prague
that's also a really big story you know
but we'll have to see what those what
really comes out of that it's just such
an unusual moment in history yo yeah
it's crazy it's crazy I mean it's it's
the as unstable as American history's
been in our lifetime certainly right
I would think you know maybe ever yeah
or close to it right a civil war on yeah
yeah I mean do you add in the fact that
we've had concerns about nuclear
conflict with two different nations
right and since since Trump has been
elected I mean there's there's the North
Korea thing and then there's the fact
that we've had military exchanges where
Russian mercenaries may you know
reportedly have died you know they
that's certainly unnerving you know the
the the nuclear clock which was
established the Doomsday Clock which was
established way back in the 50s has us
at the the most dangerous point since
1953 yeah yeah and at a at a time in
their estimation this sort of I forget
what the the organization is actually
called but I think it's physicians for
Social Responsibility but the you know
that this right now is more dangerous
than you know that the ka7 shooting the
Cuban Missile Crisis like where we're at
a moment that's incredibly tense between
these two countries and more so than the
Cuban Missile Crisis in their estimation
yeah who's estimating this this it's
called the Doomsday Clock you can you
can find it it's using as a metric just
the the you know I guess they're just
reading the news like everybody else but
you know they know it it's off derided
by my people in Washington has been
Washington is being too hysterical but
you know it is an indicator and the
people who who do it I think are the
same people who wanna win Nobel Prize
last year for the sort of anti-nuclear
the the UN ban on nuclear weapons so
remember after 9/11 we used to have
terrorist threat colors yeah yeah Robert
Mueller was on the board
the everyday they used to have a meeting
of a group of people in the various
intelligence agencies to decide what the
color would be and as a yellow yeah
exactly and what what's fascinating
about this and I only heard about this
because I wrote about this a few months
ago and I made a mistake by saying that
it the the the color used to toggle
between red which was the highest and
green which was the lowest but
apparently not once in its entire
history was it ever green like the they
never had threat level low even once in
its history so we were oh we were always
at some level of anxiety but those those
are weird times to remember that one yes
and kind of tell us how scared we were
supposed to be about about stuff and
with a real simple distinction like
colors right yeah today's orange holy
shit it's orange dude be careful you're
gonna fly today are you gonna go to an
airport today it's orange I'm not going
to the Superbowl right today's orange
yeah crazy red oh yeah I think so
and had to have and then they just
stopped right well so the the program it
took a huge hit when one of the guys who
was involved who was the former head of
Homeland Security if I'm not mistaken
came out with a story that he had been
told by some of the bush people to jack
up the the color in advance of an
election and it was shortly after that
story came out that they discontinued
the program it came out in a book by by
the former head of the homeland secure
so right before an election there yeah
time to go horns yeah exactly
yeah yeah yeah because they wanted the
robot right I mean it was this you get
people scared and they'll vote a certain
way and yeah so yeah amazing times
though yeah
as a journalist do you look at these
times and say this is great this is
great for business or do you do more so
look at it as a human being and go this
is just a fucking mess and I wish we
weren't so ridiculous so when when I
first started covering the Trump
campaign I thought this is the most
awesome thing ever because that dynamic
I was talking about before but about
reporters wanting to be on the ground
floor with with the future winner nobody
wanted to be on the Trump campaign
because nobody thought he was gonna win
I was stoked to the assigned to cover
Trump because I thought this is the most
insane thing ever and he you know even
for your style of journalists yeah
exactly I thought this is this is the
black comedy that I was then I was sort
of born to cover and worn born to write
and for the first I don't know five or
six things that I wrote about it about
Trump I thought it was the most amazing
crazy interesting story of my lifetime
and then it took this incredibly dark
turn where he actually won and I think
it was a dark turn for him to yeah
there's no question about it no there's
no I mean I knew some of the people in
his campaign I can't say this
definitively but I but I I have a very
good educated guess that they had
absolutely no expectation of it ever
even came close let alone winning and
that and that day that they did this as
a publicity stunt in the beginning
probably with the aim of either creating
a media network or just bolstering
Trump's overall Q rating or whatever it
was I think NBC might have pushed him
towards the presidency by firing him
from The Apprentice yeah because he was
still the host of that fucking show
while he was running for president they
fire him and then Arnold takes over
people forgot already
Arnold Schwarzenegger was for a very
short time good fire little fired he was
the guy for a while
yeah they had that flame war remember
it's really weird yeah fucking strange
yeah NBC might have given him the final
you know you might have taken an extra
diet pill that day that's worth says
he's done with The Apprentice blames
poor ratings on Trump involvement that's
right yeah they had that hole back in
October who was to blame for the ratings
but listen as a host of that show Donald
Trump was great oh yeah who's the
perfect guys the host that true
Arnold's too nice it's not the right guy
he's not a billionaire asshole yeah no
you need a total jackass and and get it
done where those guys you need one of
those guys you're fired and the the same
thing that made Trump perfect for that
show made him perfect as the main
protagonist in campaign coverage which
is it actually really just a really long
super boring reality show or at least it
used to be until Trump came along Trump
completely changed the dynamic of it you
know if you're if you're thinking of it
in terms of how it looks to a network
what were the network's thinking before
if they if they were gonna have people
like Scott Walker and Lindsey Graham be
the stars of their lead reality show
like let's get a real performer in there
right and and when they did when they
when then when Trump entered the fray
and became a real candidate and started
getting votes suddenly news started
making money like for like real money
for the first time and there's a there's
an amazing data point right now which is
that the public trusts the press less
than ever right they believe the things
that we say less than ever all the polls
show this that there's been a dramatic
downturn and how much people will put
stock in things that people like me say
right but they're watching television
new television news more than they ever
have buy a lot so what are those two
data points say together put together
that people are consuming news not as
news but as entertainment they're
they're they're watching it more right
so we're we've you know CNN made over a
billion dollars last year they're just
eating into the entertainment but
that's that's all they're doing and it's
it's all Trump which is is fascinating
and kind of horrifying but but really
interesting isn't that also what he
played upon when he was running like he
would say outrageous shit so they would
cover him and that essentially gave him
free press oh absolutely yeah and he
there was no doubt in my mind that that
he was doing that intentionally I
remember watching him and in New
Hampshire where he's giving a speech and
you probably remember this this woman
stood up and said Ted Cruz's a pussy
right and Trump looks over at her and he
says oh that's terrible that's terrible
she just said a terrible thing about Ted
Cruz right and I remember I remember at
the at the rise where all the cameras
are and you could see him thinking he's
thinking it's it's a story for six hours
if she says it it's a story for three
days that's why I say it right and he he
thinks and he goes she just said that
Ted Cruz is a pussy right and next thing
you know it like completely dominated
the news and and he he completely
understood the dynamic of how the news
works better than even the people in the
news understood it well certainly better
than Ted Cruz yeah that's for sure
Ted Cruz that the the recent praise of
Trump and then they go back to like what
he said during the campaign oh my god
it's no one should ever listen to him
ever again about anything
oh yeah no it was it was it's hilarious
Ted Cruz you know first of all my
favorite part of that whole campaign was
the thing that he couldn't shake about
being the Zodiac killer like and and
reporters would give him shit about it
like like we would talked with amongst
each other like who's gonna ask him
about it next you know and and and
everybody knew that it was it was
bullshit you know that he was born after
the killing started and everything all
that stuff but somebody would always
make it a point to say so what do you
think about the you know the rumors
about and you could see that it just
threw it completely drove him to
distraction he didn't know how to how to
make a joke out of it or yeah well I
know you're a hunter as Thompson fan so
you probably aware of what hunter did to
Edmund
oh yeah the e-book game yeah oh yeah
absolutely
he went crazy yeah yeah literally went
crazy no a hunter it was what was it on
the Dick Cavett show that he talked
about it well there was a rumor yeah he
had taken ibogaine and I knew about that
rumor because I started it he would
drove that guy crazy to the point where
you see I think it was in New Hampshire
he was giving a political campaign
speech and he broke down yeah oh yeah he
cried yeah yeah yeah well he so hundreds
of this great thing he he he wrote about
it it was it was kind of a spoof of
campaign coverage because he he did this
whole campaign diary and then he just
kind of went into this deadpan
recitation of what sounded like a
breaking news story about him
discovering Muskies secret relationship
with a witch doctor who was providing
him with evil again and then he dug up
some file photo of muskie that looked
like this it was like and he they put
you know must ed muskie in the grips of
a nibble gained frenzy was the caption
and it was completely deadpan he ever
said he was kidding never said it was
you know not like that was fiction and
and muskie couldn't handle it I mean he
was though that was probably the first
real political trolling that went on but
and a brilliant one too because ibogaine
is not even in that kind of a drug it's
a drug that helps people get off drugs
right yeah it's like yes oddly enough
illegal right yeah yeah in America in
America it's legal in a lot of places
but it's really great for people getting
off opiates huh it's just a ferociously
introspective drug that rewires the way
your brain deals with addictions it
literally rewires the connections
alleviates addictions on a physical and
psychological level what's the what does
it feel like I don't know I know quite a
few people that have that have had pill
problems and have gone to Mexico and
taking my friend ed clay who has an
actual Center down there now he started
it
after he had gone down there for
treatment he had a back injury I believe
it was and got hooked on pills and I was
like Jesus I gotta figure out a way to
get off these fucking things and did
ibogaine and then clearing it right up
Wow and he realized like wow like this
is this is crazy that this is illegal
yeah so the one drug that hunter chose
right was actually a drug that gets
people off drugs so just even more
ironic it just had a great name yeah
that really was the original political
troll yeah yeah and might have had a
giant effect in the election probably
did oh yeah absolutely and I don't think
it was an accident that hunters coverage
was you know that that he chose that
year to do these Diaries and I remember
my father telling me about how every
reporter would would wait for Rolling
Stone to come out that week so they
could you know read the coverage of the
election but you know hunter kind of
took this unknown government you know
unknown senator from the Dakotas George
McGovern and made him into this because
this like Christ figure basically I
don't I don't think that McGovern would
have won the nomination without without
that sort of relentless hyping that he
gave him because they probably would
have won the presidency if it wasn't for
the vice president having that issue was
right he had gone through electroshock
therapy eagleton right yeah yeah yeah
that was that was terrible but but
fascinating you know I mean I got to
write the the introduction to the last
last version of that book and that's one
of my favorite books of all time great
fucking book yeah I mean it's just like
it's it's such a crazy comic epic you
know yeah it was a big influence of
yours uh yeah you know I definitely I
think the the great thing about Hunter
Thompson
first of all he just he was so
incredibly funny in a way that was
completely rare I mean you can't just
train to be that way yet you either are
born with that ability verbally or not
and he just had this completely strange
four-dimensional way of looking at
things and you know he would he would
watch completely boring a campaign
speech and when he got done writing it
up it was like you know a psychedelic
wrestling match or something like that I
mean it was it was so much more
interesting and bizarre and weird and he
saw these great details and and he was
just I I think it was a great approach
to journalism but you know sadly there
aren't that many people who can pull it
off because it just required you know a
surpassing literary talent and that's
that's not that's incredibly rare what
was a unique combination of fiction
writing along with like an actual
understanding analysis yeah that was
that was his great because he because
you're right he he would bring you in
and the the reader would would have surf
along this incredibly charged fast-paced
narrative that read like you know the
the fastest most engrossing fiction all
right but he would intersperse it with
any and stop and pull back and do what
we call it a rolling stone we call them
wisdoms right where you know you just
sort of stop and say here's my take on
this and those were amazing I mean he
just he just had this ability to sort of
cut through the bullshit and see see
things from an angle that nobody else
saw and that was a rare technique back
then the idea of the kind of
individualized take on things nobody was
doing that and reporting back then I
mean
it was nobody even thought of it as a
form as a form that you could really
experiment with I mean there were a few
people back then like Terry southern and
Tom Wolfe who were who were doing some
things like that but but Thompson was
completely unique and there hasn't been
anybody like him you know since since
then I think I think it's it's not an
accident that nobody's been able to pull
that off again no well maguet compared
to him a lot and one in one way I really
saw that comparison was your brilliant
coverage of the financial crisis and
what was the the mechanisms behind the
scene of the financial crisis and that I
became a really big fan of your work
reading that because the that I I think
you covered that as well if not better
than anybody no thanks yeah I mean so I
I knew nothing about any I couldn't even
balance my checkbook when they assigned
me to that story and and I had to start
basically from square one and I was
calling people and saying things like
can you tell me something about
something that I'll understand you know
I was cold calling investment banks and
literally saying that and I finally got
a guy to have lunch with me and he said
your problem is that you're trying to
understand this as an economic story
once you look at it as a crime story
you'll get it and and from that point
forward I I totally I felt like like I
started to understand the whole
mechanism in the subprime mortgage scam
it really was a scam it's really it's
really just a massive corporatized
version of like selling oregano as weed
basically they took stuff that these is
incredibly worthless highly risky
mortgage loans right you know they would
give out loans to everybody with a pulse
you know whether you had a job or not
whether you were a citizen or not didn't
matter poor thing was to get the loan
immediately sell it off chop it up turn
it into securities and then they used
this
highly-advanced sort of mathematical
trick to turn all that sort of mortgage
hamburger into triple-a rated securities
so you'd have like a you know a junk
rated mortgage like the riskiest loan in
existence something that was so toxic
that country companies like country ride
wouldn't want to hold on to it for more
than a week because they were afraid it
would that the stuff would blow up and
then they would sell it off to like a
pension fund or you know an insurance
company in the form of a triple-a rated
security which you know is as safe as a
US Treasury bond so it was a scam McGann
and the the the the metaphor of you know
baby power taking baby powder and
selling it as coke or whatever that
that's exactly what it was they just
took worthless shit and sold it as
something that was that was gold and
they got they did it for years and years
and years and years and they they knew
that this gigantic huge bubble of risk
and disaster was just accumulating and
that someday it was going to all explode
and cascade and and and ruin the economy
but everybody was trying to time it
right and and bet on when that would
happen and make their money before that
that Judgment Day came and it was it was
fascinating once it once I started to
learn about it it was just such a an
amazingly disgusting
fascinating story that it was just hard
not to not to get into it a crime story
yeah think of it as a crime story yeah
no absolutely I even got a what one guy
gave me a book it was called famous
famous con artists in history right it
was like this little tome it's smaller
than like the smallest paperback and it
was the biography of this guy Victor
Lustig was his name he was famous
because he sold the Eiffel Tower twice
all right
and he he had this the scam that he
called I think it was called the the the
Hungarian box I'll have to go back and
look but basically what he would do is
he would get on a boat in New York and
he had this sort of beautiful mahogany
box with a crank on it that had two
holes in it and he would show all the
guests that he would put a blank piece
of paper in one and turn a crank and
$100 bill would come out the other end
and he convinced them all that it was a
machine that made money and everybody
would offer him an increasing amount of
money for this invention and he wouldn't
sell it until the last day when he would
sell it for a you know 40 or 50 thousand
dollars and then he would disappear and
jump off the boat and in France never be
seen again people would yeah there it is
what's it called yeah but but that's
exactly what the Morrises picture let me
see his face look at that fucking creep
[Laughter]
Wow let me see that box again wow that
is crazy so there yes so it was
obviously fake and and and but that's
what the mortgage scam was they they
they were taking basically blank paper
these these subprime loans that belong
to janitors who were gonna foreclose
within 10 minutes all right
and they were telling people that oh we
have this new mathematical process that
allows that actually makes this stuff
really safe and you can put it in your
in your College endowment you can put in
your pension fund and so all these
people you know whose retirement monies
were based on securities were buying all
this shit that they thought was was
triple-a rated and that's that's how
they woke up and you know and in
2008-2009
their 401ks were were you know wiped out
by 40% or whatever it was my neighbor
really did I happen to him my neighbor
bought this plot of land and had this
dream to build his dream house and he
would go buy the plot of land and he was
always cleaning it up and getting ready
and I would talk to him and then boom
2008 happened he lost everything and he
would still go buy that plot of land and
clean it up and he and I would talk
about it and they just told me he lost
everything yeah so it's never gonna
happen huh yeah no I think he I think he
died he eventually got really sick and
they took him out of his house and
brought him somewhere but I think he's
dead now but yeah his his story was
awful awful to hear this guy who was in
his 60s who had got this piece of land
with a nice view and it's like this is
where I'm gonna dream build my dream
house and he had all this money prepared
for it all this money saved away and he
was ready to rock and roll and then BOOM
mmm it all went out they just drained
out somebody put a hole in the bottom of
the boat and everything everything went
to the bottom of the ocean yeah and then
he probably got ripped off twice because
his tax dollars went to go bail out the
guys who you know you know because some
of the some of the banks got stuck
holding some of this shit and rather
than eat the losses like you're your
friend did they got the Federal Reserve
to buy it from them yeah no and and you
know or or the Treasury so how the fuck
did they get away with giving the CEOs
bonuses during that time yeah a giant
bonuses during the time where they had
to be bailed out by the taxpayers yeah
that was another scam like so they were
if you looked at the fine print of all
the bailouts it's basically said that
you had to repay the money by us by x
time before you could start paying
people exorbitant amounts of money again
but a lot of those a lot of those
conditions were never really followed
and you know the the conditions of
repayment were kind of glossed over and
the the the companies that they were
supposed to be able to pass these things
called stress tests which demonstrated
that they were back on solid footing
again before they paid people bonuses
but the stress tests were all fudged and
you know I mean the there were there was
crime and corruption a legality
basically in every direction during that
whole period and and not just in the
government but in in all these companies
as well geez yeah
but fascinating to follow yeah what was
it like covering that I mean how long
did you spend working on that seven
years probably yeah yeah well because
one of the things that I thought no that
was really interesting was I did my
first story about this and I got this
incredible reaction because it turns out
that the financial press there is nobody
in the financial press who writes for
ordinary people like it's basically what
I was doing was a translation job I was
trying to basically take what had
happened and explain it in a way that a
person who knew nothing about finance
would be able to understand and it turns
out that nobody's doing that so all
these people who had questions about it
who who wanted to know what had happened
to their money or why don't why did my
house get foreclosed on or what it you
know what's what's a subprime mortgage
or anything you know there was nobody
else doing that work so I had lots of it
to do and it was really interesting and
I just kept doing it that had to be
depressing yeah oh yeah of course
of course I mean most most investigative
reporting is depressing particularly
that because he mean a lot of it was old
people that oh my god old people
minorities I mean I did one story about
a bank in Maryland well it's a National
Bank it's it's a bank that you know I
wouldn't be surprised that
of a lot of people listening how have
their accounts at this Bank they had to
pay a settlement to the government
because they were intentionally
targeting elderly black people to sell
subprime mortgages - and they called the
mud people
and there were all these these like
toxic emails going back and forth about
how stupid they were and how they'll buy
anything at cetera et cetera the emails
they call the mud people yeah yeah and
so they had to pay a settlement to the
government
and but you know the racial component of
the of that crash was something that I
didn't really clue into until late but
that was a big part of it - it was you
know a lot of it involved these mortgage
lenders going into particularly like
lower middle-class black neighborhoods
and knocking on doors where there be
like an elderly person at home and
saying hey would you like to refi your
mortgage and you'll have a little bit of
extra spending money this month right
and the person won't know anything about
finance and they'll still sign this
refinance deal that allows them to save
a little bit of money at each month
not knowing that they had just converted
their fixed mortgage into a floating
mortgage and that is seeing the interest
rates changed you know you'd have people
who went from paying $900 a month to
paying $7,000 a month right and suddenly
they're out in the street and and you
know the the company that sold them the
loan is long gone by then they they're
not holding it they as soon as they got
her name on the dotted line they sold it
off to a bank in New York who in turn
again chopped it up into hamburger and
sold it probably to you our pension fund
or who or whatever so there's nobody she
could complain to and you know yeah that
stuff was really depressing what was a
feeling like of having very little
understanding about finance and then
immersing yourself in it and I was
fantasizing that this is the underlying
structure that our society is wrong that
our money is established through this is
this is how we
we sell houses and loans and this is
what we're doing yes
yeah no it was it was fascinating I
because before that I was mostly
covering like elections right and again
if you cover elections it's incredibly
boring and you never hear anything of
substance and it's not terribly
complicated and you know one one the the
Democrat says that you know we want to
help the middle class and the Republican
says we want to protect America Family
Values and that's pretty much the extent
of the intellectual challenge in terms
of covering that stuff and I always
thought to myself you know politics in
America must be a lot more complicated
than this right there must be some other
hidden thing where it's incredibly
complex and diabolical and and you know
the the real machination of the power
must be visible somewhere and I think
that you find that when you when you
start looking into how Wall Street works
how money works how central banking
works how you know how the concentration
of wealth works
I mean basically the subprime scheme was
an effort to pull the remaining savings
out of the population right it just
wasn't you know in the old days
investment banks made their money by
lending money to companies who would
build factories and they would make
stuff and sell it around the world and
everybody would make money and never you
know even even the population would
would would benefit from it but that
manufacturing economy it's all gone it's
so foresees so you have this
financialized economy and they have no
normal beneficial way to make money and
all they're all they can really do is
look to see where is their money and how
can we get it and most people had money
in their houses right like the the
accumulated savings of most people
whatever was left after the internet
crash in the 90s was in real estate and
that this was the scam by which they
took the wealth that was left in the
that's of ordinary people and
transferred it to you know nine people
in Manhattan basically I mean that's why
you have you know we told them when we
talk about wealth inequality now right
being a huge factor that you know the
top ninety-five I'm sorry the top 1% of
the population owns ninety percent of
the wealth in the country or whatever it
is that's a consequence of schemes like
this where they're just they're finding
out where people have a little bit of
money and they're systematically coming
up with scams to move it from there to
here with no consequence no with no
consequence and that was the other part
of the story that I ended up having to
cover later which was you know the the
last time they tried something like this
like during the SNL crisis which was
also sort of a giant fraud scheme also
that involved real estate lending and
you know but that the government after
that actually you know indicted eighteen
hundred people they put eight hundred
people in jail they put a lot of you
know serious influential people on the
dock after that nobody nobody went to
jail after this stuff and there was and
people think that well they didn't do
anything that was technically illegal no
bullshit there there was lots of stuff
that was that was brazenly criminally
illegal I mean they committed fraud on a
broad scale but some of these companies
were into the things that were even
worse than that I mean you take HSBC
HSBC admitted to laundering 850 million
dollars for a pair of Central and South
American drug cartels including the
Sinaloa cartel right which is suspected
in thousands of murders like and you
know they they admitted to this activity
they agreed to a deferred prosecution
agreement with the government where
nobody did a day in jail no individual
had to pull out a dime out of their own
pockets to pay the shareholders pointed
up 1.9 million dollars but some of that
was tax-deductible which means we paid
some of that fine
and and the only real punishment with
any teeth is that some of the executives
had to partially defer their bonuses for
five years so laundering 850 million
dollars for narco terrorists gets you a
total walk you know that tells you
basically everything you need to know
about do we prosecute white-collar crime
in this country basically no you know I
mean that's the answer
ultimately that you find out and there
was paperwork that showed they knew it
was from the cartels oh yeah they if you
if you look at the the agreement and you
can watch the thirst there's there's a
video of of Loretta Lynch and Lanny
Breuer because this is before Laura
Loretta Lynch was Attorney General but
she was she was basically the head of
this deal they talked about the fact
that the HSBC branches because most of
this was done in Mexico hmx which was
the subsidiary company they had special
teller windows built to fit cash boxes
that the drug cartels were bringing into
the bank so basically you've seen the
scene the scene in Scarface where the
guys come in with duffel bags with cash
to the bank yeah right and you know
that's like a montage you know there's
that that song I forget what song it is
in the background same thing these guys
would come into the bank they would
slide in these boxes of cash one after
the other and that's admitted activity
the bank's signed off on this they you
know it's not like they're contesting it
they're not saying we neither admit nor
deny it's it's part of the deal
so and in they agreed to the amount
everything so yeah it was a 1.9 billion
dollar settlement but you know it's not
like it came out of the pockets of the
people who did it and it's not like any
of the people who did it are in jail
it's just you know a thing that happened
and you know that's five weeks of profit
for the bank so what what the fuck they
don't care
did you see the documentary an inside
job yeah yep we've covered a lot of the
same territory yeah yeah that was a
sobering documentary where they're
talking to the very people that caused
the financial crisis mm-hm and and
realizing that these people were
economics professors that eventually got
these jobs really lucrative jobs with
banks and how they finagled this system
and made it so it looked like these
things were appropriate ya know I talked
to some of the some of the things that
they invented that made this the crash
possible sounded like good ideas like
they they came up with this thing called
the credit default swap alright and I
won't bore you with what that is exactly
but basically it's a kind of insurance
where it's it's basically a bet it's
hard to explain but a it's a way of
quasi insuring a product without having
to pony up a lot of money and the it's
it's called a derivative right and these
instruments are completely unregulated
can I put the secret default swap is
like you and I betting on whether or not
a third person's house is going to burn
in a fire right like the old-school
insurance said that it had to be your
house in order for you to get insurance
on it this new form of quasi insurance
said that two totally disinterested
parties could have an interest in a
third thing that happens so it's
basically gambling and on the one hand
it allowed people to create a whole lot
of capital which allowed them to lend
more money which theoretically allowed
people to buy more houses but in reality
it just created the system where all
these people had bets that were back and
forth on on all these properties that's
one of the reasons why the
when the crash happened when when all
those mortgages started to fail it
wasn't just the failures of those
properties it was all these people who
were betting on whether or not these
people could could pay their mortgages
they started to lose money and there
were people who had bets on that who
started to lose money and it's like this
cascading whirlpool of shit that
happened and again it just started out
as an idea to just create more money to
lend to lend and it turned into this
nightmare mechanical scenario that just
that created losses you know in this
almost apocalyptic fashion and a lot of
them had no idea but that that was going
to be the eventualities it's great it's
definitely crazy stuff as a person who
didn't really follow finance before how
much does that affected your life down
like the way you look at things I
definitely pay a lot more attention to
the fine print when I enter into any
financial contract I think about where I
do my banking but the reality is you
just don't have a whole lot of choice in
this country anyway I mean it's like
everything else there's only a few
companies left so almost every bank
that's out there where you can have a
bank account in a mortgage is is a bank
that I've written about some massive
scandal before so that that's that's a
problem but yeah I worry about it all
the time I mean I have friends in
finance who call me and they they tell
me that you know that the things that
are incredibly unsafe and that this that
and the other could could could happen
and so I have an anxiety level about
things that I never had before but apart
from that yeah I mean that's a natural
consequence of having to spend seven
years looking at all these horror
stories that's great it's crazy you
spent their lunch time on it do you see
any other bubbles coming up yeah people
talk about that all the time
there's a lot of a lot of negative press
about subprime auto loans for instance
which is it's not exactly the same but
it's it's a similar thing I mean the
same basic scam of taking loans chopping
them up and then repackaging them as
something that's more valuable than the
original loan you can do that with
anything any kind of credit you can do
it with credit cards you can do it with
aircraft loans you can do it with with
car loans you can do it with with home
mortgages and so the the mechanism of
taking things that are are toxic and
risky and making them look like triple-a
is still is still part of the economy
and it's everywhere the plus side of
that is that there's more credit
available you know almost anybody can
get a credit card or even if you've had
screwed up credit you can get a car you
know I mean there's this put us on this
like endless cycle of build-up bubble
collapse build-up bubble collapse
rebounding collapse again absolutely I
mean I think that's that's that's why I
can't you have to be nervous about the
you know the skyrocketing stock exchange
yeah we verified yeah I mean you should
be right do you are you heavily invested
and I've got some in there I just didn't
when the whole you know when Trump was
saying the economy's never been better
look at the stock market stock market's
killing it I always do and then it'll
have a bad day and you're okay well I
thought we're doing great like what's
going on with this bad day can you not
control these bad days right like what's
happening here right if you're if you're
in control the good days you're also in
control the bad days right yeah of
course of course it just it seems it
seems super suspicious yeah and and in
the old days you'd have a lot of
confidence that well the stock market
always eventually goes up so yeah
there's gonna be bad days but it'll go
back right but the problem is the
underlying economy in America it just
isn't all that hot you know like we're
like what do we really make in this
country what what we're where's the
floor
right like we have we have some
industries that sort of perform well but
if you know periodically we go through
these bubbles that are based on nothing
more than enthusiasm you know in the 90s
it was the the tech bubble right where
people like Alan Greenspan would say
things like well we have a new paradigm
in economics right so it doesn't matter
whether a company hasn't shown any
ability to make money or you know has no
reasonable profit and loss statements
it's just if it's a good idea that the
stock is sound and everybody should
invest in it and the stock market is
going to continually go up go up so
don't worry about it of course that
doesn't happen everybody but it blows up
everybody loses their shirt but what
what do they do the Fed lowers interest
rates basically allows Wall Street to
recapitalize drink itself sober and they
plunge into the next the next madness
which is mortgages and once again you
have Alan Greenspan saying hey you know
real estate is a great bet it's you know
it's going to continually ascend people
should use their homes as ATM machines
you know you should you should consider
refinancing your house so that you can
get a little bit of extra cash and and
this is this was actually the message
they sent to America and again it
creates this artificial
mania where the economy is stoked
artificially to gigantic dimensions but
it's not based on anything and so when
when it crashes when you finally get
like any Ponzi scheme it you know it
depends it depends on more new investors
coming in than old investors leaving
right so there's always going to be that
moment when suddenly we don't have as
many new ones as old ones and the
instant that happens it all goes kaboom
right and that's what happened with with
the subprime market there was a moment
in time where they they just couldn't
keep it going anymore they couldn't find
any more new suckers the to get to
to sell mortgages to and the mania ended
and all went splat and then it was
amplified by the fact that we have this
system now of people betting on credit
that is legal which creates more losses
out of thin air so yeah I'm terrified
every time I see this the stock market
go up what's it based on is it based on
our economy actually doing well I don't
know I don't think so
you know I'm sorry I'm look like I'm
scaring you a little bit you're
definitely scary but I think that's good
I think I need to be scared I tend to
take these things and just you know I
have Financial Advisors I like let them
handle money right when I hear things
like this I just got Jesus well I I get
terrified when I hear about really smart
people getting scammed like yesterday we
were talking about theranos you know
that a blood-testing company that turned
out to be total horseshit no I didn't
hear about this oh it's great story it's
it's a story of one of those things
where you you find someone who you hope
exists and you build them up there was
this woman she looked like Steve Jobs
she wore a black turtleneck in every
photo and she was the the the richest
ever self-made woman she was worth four
billion dollars she had built this
company called theranos right out of
college she was like nineteen when she
started the company it was a
blood-testing company that just required
a small prick of your blood to do
complicated blood analysis for diseases
and things along those lines turns out
it didn't work at all mmm and they faked
a bunch of shit I'd spread fraud a lot
of people got their blood tested it
turned out to be you know they were at
risk for all these diseases and warren
buffett invested a hundred million
dollars I think 125 Betsy DeVos more
than a hundred million dollars like all
these super wealthy people got scammed
Wow
yeah when you find out that really
wealthy people right that do this for a
living
yeah Buffett does that for a living
right that he can get scammed out of a
hundred and twenty five million dollars
right right yeah and and Warren Buffett
is
his mantras supposed to be picking the
the absolute long term investment right
so it's not he's not like a stevie :
type who just looks at the tape and
tries to time it just right so you know
you can you can make an investment for
10 seconds and come out with it with a
you know if he if he's investing in a
company and and even he can be fooled
that's that's pretty terrible but look
at Enron I mean Enron was was another
example of the world's best financial
analysts we're looking at this company
for a decade and the the results were
completely ridiculous like it should
have been obvious to any layperson that
that these profit numbers couldn't
possibly be real and it wasn't until one
of those guys I think it was Jim Chanos
it was sort of a famous short seller I
mean I sort of said hey wait a minute
that there's something up here but
people continually invested in these
companies and there's just not a whole
lot of oversight that goes on with with
Wall Street and I think that's that's a
major lesson of you know the last 20
years is that is that there's just not a
lot of eyes on on crime and in this area
another example is I'm sorry the the
who's the guy scammed all the rich
people really made Bernie Madoff yeah I
was gonna bring him up yes the most
egregious example right yeah yeah I mean
there are other there are other people
who did similar things but this guy
didn't even make investments right you
know what I mean like he he was
literally just sort of taking money and
you know when someone cashed out he
would yeah it was like girls like
throwing he had a big you know pile of
cash and you know he would who take some
man and throw some out but if the SEC it
had at any time just looked at his books
and said what are you invested in it all
would have you know that whole house of
cards would have fallen and invest in
anything no and he wasn't he wasn't
making trades
he wasn't doing anything you know and
and there are a bunch of stories like
this there's a great book called the
octopus which is about as somebody who
did a Madoff like scam another hedge
fund where same thing they weren't
really making trades they were just sort
of creating phony profit and loss
statements and and and creating records
that look like trades they could they
could tell their investors about but
they weren't actually doing anything so
if anybody any expert at any time had
just poke their nose and into this
person's books that would have seen it
in ten seconds that's the mean that's
the amazing thing about this you know
not not to get back to you know my my
drug-dealing book but this is one of the
things that he says which is that you
know you can be in a you know in a poor
black neighborhood and a couple of kids
will be on a cell phone talking about
selling ten dollars worth of weed and
they'll be picked up by cops you know
within 20 minutes or something like that
meanwhile you know somebody like you
know Bernie Madoff can commit 100
million dollar frauds year after year
after year and not even do any take any
effort to try to cover it up all that
well and get away with it
well Bernie's big crime was that he
ripped off rich people yeah absolutely
if he had done the exact same thing to
poor people but he did was just it was
just too easy to call what he did a
crime versus what you were talking about
with these financial institutions right
yeah Owens yeah if he if he had long if
he had laundered it through a a slightly
more legitimate process he he would have
gotten out flattened but the one of the
things that a lot of these guys these
scam artists get into it thinking that
they're actually gonna be real hedge
funds and that they they have some stock
picking system that's actually gonna
make all their clients money and one of
the things they find out is that a they
suck they they they're not outperforming
the market and they're not that smart
but be that their clients can't tell if
they just make up the numbers so there
there are a number of cases of people
who start out trying to be legitimate
and trying to be really real investment
advisors but they just end up turning it
to Bernie Madoff types because it's just
easy there's no there aren't that many
people watching for it and you know that
that's kind of scary too well it seems
like there's so many people doing it how
could there be enough people watching it
right about how many investment firms
there are and how many different people
that are involved in trading how could
anybody be watching all of it right ya
know there but even even so even if you
take that into consideration than the
number of eyes that are that are on this
world is is ridiculously low electic
take AIG alright AIG was one of the
world's largest companies that you know
before before it crashed it had like a
hundred eighty thousand employees it was
it took advantage of this weird loophole
that allows financial companies to
essentially choose their own regulator
so because because AIG had a thrift or
Savings and Loan that's basically the
same thing they chose to be regulated by
the OTS which is the office of Thrift
Supervision which is this tiny tiny
little you know office in Washington
that oversees basically savings and loan
operations and in in the OTS this is
this is actually true the they had
exactly one insurance expert on staff so
essentially with the world's largest
insurance company was being regulated by
a government office that only had one
person who really understood insurance
and and even and even that person
wouldn't have understood the the part of
the company that blew up which was
essentially an investment bank within
the insurance company that was creating
these sort of highly advanced sort of
derivative operations that know that
they just would not have been able to
understand that stuff so there the
government just does not place
a lot of resources into you know keeping
an eye on even the most basic things and
when you compare that to law enforcement
in other areas you know is how many how
many people do we have
you know worrying about bank bank
robberies in this country or or drugs
right or you know how many people are
being watched because they're marijuana
dealers in other states I mean it dwarfs
the number of people who are watching
for economic crimes yeah one person yeah
I just love the the name of it office of
Thrift Supervision yeah exactly sure it
exists anymore I think it was it was
merged into some other because there
used to be the OCC officer of the
Comptroller of the currency and I think
they created a new regulator ad out of
all that after the crash but but yeah
and I just shows it's regulator and it's
regulator you know was totally
overmatched didn't couldn't understand
shit and that's one of the reasons why
the company blew up the company also
blew up because it was run by insurance
people who didn't understand they idea
was basically Wall Street's bookie all
these people were betting all these
investment banks were betting on whether
or not mortgages were gonna fail or not
and AIG was selling the product that
they could use to make those bets
essentially or they were taking on
insurance on packets of mortgages so if
they exploded you would get a payout
right it's like it's like buying an
insurance policy on your neighbor's
house if it goes up in flames you get
paid on it you get paid AIG was selling
a product that allowed banks essentially
to buy insurance on on houses on
mortgages and if the if people
foreclosed if the mortgages failed or
pools of mortgages failed if you if you
bought that kind of insurance you got
these huge payouts so people were
betting against mortgages basically and
AIG was taking all this book and but the
the heads of the company were old-school
insurance executives who just didn't
understand
this newfangled complicated form of
insurance and so they would look at the
numbers they were being given and even
they didn't get it didn't they didn't
understand how how exposed they were and
so when all the bets started going the
wrong way suddenly they're being asked
to pay out billions of dollars and
they're like wait where is this coming
from
so so even the companies were kind of
clueless about the shit that was going
on it turns out listen man if it wasn't
for you dummies like me would not
understand why we should be scared like
everybody was scared but reading your
your articles about it maybe understand
why and I think that's a the way you
describe it is great that you translated
this stuff you actually worked as Trant
as a translator and I appreciate your
work man oh well thank you so much for
having a huge fan forever I'm looking
forward to seeing your special I think
that yeah it's gonna come out sometime
around September I think that's when
they're gonna release it excellent Thank
You Man really appreciate thinking about
it thanks for coming on man thanks very
much Matt Taibbi ladies and gentlemen
[Music]
[Applause]